---
layout: page
title: Settings
id: settings
---

# {{ page.title }}

---

**artoo.js** ships with a variety of settings for you to adjust.

You can change the library's settings either by changing them directly through JavaScript:

```js
artoo.settings.debug = true;

// Or if you need to merge settings:
artoo.loadSettings({
  debug: false
});
```

Or by specifying a precise configuration in a custom bookmarklet generated by **artoo.js**' [grunt task]({{ site.baseurl }}/grunt).

---

* [Root](#root)
* [Dependencies](#dependencies)
* [Cache](#cache)
* [Instructions](#instructions)
* [jQuery](#jquery)
* [Log](#log)
* [Store](#store)

---

<h2 id="root">Root</h2>

* **autoExec** *boolean* [`true`] : should the given script be evaluated when artoo is started?
* **autoInit** *boolean* [`true`] : should **artoo** launch his initialization routine when loaded? If the routine is not automatically launched, you'll have to do it yourself with `artoo.init()`.
* **reExec** *boolean* [`true`] : should the given script be evaluated every time the bookmarklet is invoked in the page?
* **debug** *boolean* [`false`] : should debug mode be activated.
* **scriptUrl** *string* [`null`] : the url of a distant script to be injected and executed as soon as artoo is started.
* **eval** *string* [`null`] : the string of a script to be executed through `eval` as soon as artoo is started.
* **reload** *boolean* [`false`] : should **artoo** be reloaded when injected more than once.

---

<h2 id="dependencies">Dependencies</h2>

**artoo** enables you to load some remote dependencies alongside jQuery when he is injected within a webpage.

Note that the injected dependencies will be injected safely into your webpage by checking whether they can be injected into the global scope or not.

To do so, just add an array of desired dependencies in the settings.

*Example*

Requesting the [async](https://github.com/caolan/async) library through a cdn.

```json
{
  "dependencies": [
    {
      "name": "async",
      "url": "//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/async/0.9.0/async.js",
      "globals": ["async"]
    }
  ]
}
```
*Options*

* **name** *string* : name of the dependency as registered in `artoo.deps`.
* **url** *string* : remote url where it is possible to load the dependency.
* **globals** *string|array* : array of variable names or single variable names that will be injected to the global scope by the loaded dependency so we can track inject them safely.
* **force** *?boolean* [`false`] : should the dependency be forced into the global scope?

*Usage*

```js
// Given we requested async

// If no conflicts occured
async.series(task);

// A conflict occured, dependencies are available through 'artoo.deps'
artoo.deps.async.series(task);
```

---

<h2 id="cache">Cache</h2>

* **cache.delimiter** *string* [`'%'`] : the delimiter to be used to wrap cache's storage keys.

---

<h2 id="instructions">Instructions</h2>

* **instructions.autoRecord** *boolean* [`true`] : should **artoo** starts to record instructions on his own?

---

<h2 id="jquery">jQuery</h2>

* **jquery.force** *boolean* [`false`] : should **artoo** force jQuery injection?
* **jquery.version** *string* [`2.1.1`] : jQuery version to be injected.

---

<h2 id="log">Log</h2>

* **log.enabled** *boolean* [`true`] : should **artoo** be able to log?
* **log.welcome** *boolean* [`true`] : should the logo be displayed on start?

---

<h2 id="store">Store</h2>

* **store.engine** *string* [`'local'`] : engine to use for `artoo.store`. Either `local` or `session`.
